0.32 release notes and minor doc changes (#2182)
astronomer/docs: software/release-notes.md

<!--- Version-specific -->

0.32 is the latest stable version of Astronomer Software, while 0.30 remains the latest long-term support (LTS) release. To upgrade to 0.32, see [Upgrade Astronomer](upgrade-astronomer.md). For more information about Software release channels, see [Release and lifecycle policies](release-lifecycle-policy.md). To read release notes specifically for the Astro CLI, see [Astro CLI release notes](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/release-notes).

## 0.32.0

> Release date: 
> 

Author: ```suggestion
Release date: April 28, 2023
```

<!--- Version-specific -->

0.32 is the latest stable version of Astronomer Software, while 0.30 remains the latest long-term support (LTS) release. To upgrade to 0.32, see [Upgrade Astronomer](upgrade-astronomer.md). For more information about Software release channels, see [Release and lifecycle policies](release-lifecycle-policy.md). To read release notes specifically for the Astro CLI, see [Astro CLI release notes](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/release-notes).

## 0.32.0

Release date: 

### New cron job to clean Deployment task data

> You can now clean task data from your Deployments by exporting it to an external storage service. This workflow reduces the amount of storage Astronomer Software uses by archiving data that you don't need to access on a regular basis. See [docs link] for configuration steps.

Reviewer: @jwitz we are planning to hold the public documentation for the cleanup feature. So please omit for now

### Programmatically create and update Deployments with the Houston API

You can now programmatically create or update Deployments using the Houston API `upsertDeployment` mutation. Unlike `createDeployment`, the `upsertDeployment` mutation includes keys for configuring Deployment resources such as environment variables. See [Doc link].

> ### Modify AU size in development environments

Author: ```suggestion
### Reduce resource requests for Airflow components in development environments
```

> You can now change the amount of CPU and memory that an AU represents in development environments, allowing you to more accurately provision resources based on the requirements for your development Deployments. See [doc link] for configuration steps.

Author: ```suggestion
You can reduce the amount of CPU and memory that an Airflow component requests in development environments, allowing you to more efficiently provision resources based on the requirements for your development Deployments. See [doc link] for configuration steps.
```

  
### Additional improvements

> - Upgraded to Postgres 15.

Reviewer 2: If we want to add more documentation about the postgres upgrade I don't think this is the right place to do it.

Documentation about this upgrade would explain that in-place upgrades are not possible, so an export and import would be needed in order to do the upgrade to postgres 15. It should strongly suggest the alternative, which is to migrate to a database solution that lives outside of the cluster, such as a cloud hosted postgres database. It should also give instructions for how to remain on the old version of postgres by setting `postgresql.image.tag` to `11.18.0-1`

CC @jwitz

- Workspaces are now required to have unique names. If you have existing Workspaces with identical names, upon upgrade the duplicate names will be appended with an underscore and a number.
- If you configured [git-sync deploys](deploy-git-sync.md) for a Deployment, you can now [view error logs](deployment-logs.md) emitted from the git-sync Kubernetes Pod in the Software UI.

> - The indexing frequency for [Vector logging sidecars](export-task-logs.md#export-logs-using-container-sidecars) has been reduced from daily to monthly.

Reviewer 2: Is this accurate? I thought any index changes were not specific to vector. I'm also not sure if we changed the default. @rishkarajgi can you verify these details?

Reviewer: @jwitz @danielhoherd We have not changed any defaults here. We are now allowing the user to override the default index pattern from "%Y.%m.%d" to any other pattern such as "%Y.%m"

Reviewer: We will also have to override the curator index pattern
`elasticsearch
  curator:
    age:
      timestring: "%Y.%m.%d"`
      
@danielhoherd @pgvishnuram

Reviewer 2: Requiring those both to be set is not the greatest UX. I have created a ticket to improve that. If we can't make that better by tying it to a single variable, then we should add notes about how they need to be synchronized. https://github.com/astronomer/issues/issues/5594

We should make sure in the docs here to call that out.

> - The indexing frequency for [Vector logging sidecars](export-task-logs.md#export-logs-using-container-sidecars) has been reduced from daily to monthly.

Author: ```suggestion
- You can now configure a custom indexing pattern for [Vector logging sidecars](export-task-logs.md#export-logs-using-container-sidecars) by setting both `elasticsearch.curator.age.timestring` and `global.loggingSidecar. indexPattern` in your `config.yaml` file.
```

> - You can now configure custom environment variables for ElasticSearch logging using the `astronomer.customLogging.extraEnv` value in your `config.yaml` file.

Reviewer: This is specific to only external ES not in-cluster. 

Rewriting this as
You can now configure custom environment variables for ElasticSearch based Custom Logging using the `astronomer.customLogging.extraEnv` value in your `config.yaml` file.

cc: @pgvishnuram @danielhoherd

> - You can now configure custom environment variables for ElasticSearch logging using the `astronomer.customLogging.extraEnv` value in your `config.yaml` file.

Author: ```suggestion
- You can now configure custom environment variables for ElasticSearch-based custom logging using the `astronomer.customLogging.extraEnv` value in your `config.yaml` file.
```

> - The `astronomer.houston.config.deployments.sysAdminScalabilityImprovementsEnabled` key has been replaced with `astronomer.houston.config.deployments.performanceOptimizationModeEnabled`, and the feature flag now optimizes the performance of additional Software UI pages.

Author: ```suggestion
- The `astronomer.houston.config.deployments.sysAdminScalabilityImprovementsEnabled` key has been replaced with `astronomer.houston.config.deployments.performanceOptimizationModeEnabled`  for improved performance across additional Software UI views.
```

### Bug fixes

> - Fixed an issue where Deployment statuses did not appear in the Software UI sidebar.

Reviewer: This can be omitted. It was a regression bug ticket and not an existing bug

> - Fixed an issue where Deployment statuses did not appear in the Software UI sidebar.

Author: ```suggestion
```

- Fixed an issue in the Software UI where you could not view Deployment details for a Deployment that included "team" in its name.
- Fixed an issue where a service account with Workspace Editor permissions could update Deployments. 

> - Fixed an issue where statsd was using more memory than expected.

Reviewer 2: Is this the statsd confimap change? If so it's not that statsd was using more memory, it's that it was emitting incorrectly configured metrics, which overburdened prometheus.

Author: I was trying to focus on the "overburden" part and thought that related to memory performance, what was the end effect for users when these metrics were emitted?

Reviewer 2: The core of the issue is that we were not using the astronomer statsd configmap, we were using the airflow OSS one. This meant that the statsd config was not tuned to remove a lot of fields that we have not included in the past for performance reasons. The OSS statsd emits a much higher cardinality set of metrics. Cardinality has an exponential demand on prometheus, so even an increase of a few extra labels can lead to a significant burden on prometheus. The effect is that prometheus queries will take longer and prometheus itself will use more memory. Here is an article with some context on cardinality: https://www.robustperception.io/cardinality-is-key/

> - Fixed an issue where statsd was using more memory than expected.

Author: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue where Prometheus was using more memory than expected due to a misconfiguration of statsd.
```

> - Fixed an issue  in the Software UI where a text search could return multiple entries for a single Deployment.

Author: ```suggestion
Fixed an issue in the Software UI where a text search returned duplicate entries for a single Deployment name.
```
